README.md, before:

# Paper Mario DX

[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/star-haven/papermario-dx)][releases]
[![Download](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/star-haven/papermario-dx/total)][download]
![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/star-haven/papermario-dx/build.yaml)

This is a fork of the [Paper Mario decompilation][papermario-repo] which provides a flexible, easy-to-use base for creating romhacks.

To get started, see [docs.starhaven.dev](https://docs.starhaven.dev/tools/decomp/setup.html).

[discord]: https://discord.gg/star-haven
[discord-badge]: https://img.shields.io/discord/279322074412089344?color=%237289DA&logo=discord&logoColor=ffffff
[papermario-repo]: https://github.com/pmret/papermario
[releases]: https://github.com/star-haven/papermario-dx/releases
[download]: https://github.com/star-haven/papermario-dx/releases/download/latest/papermario.bps

## List of changes

- US release only (no JP, PAL, or iQue - none of these are near 100% yet).
- Default configure flags: `--shift --modern-gcc --non-matching --ccache`
- Backtrace (call stack) on crash screen including file names and line numbers.
    - You can call [`debug_backtrace()`](src/dx/backtrace.h) to print a backtrace in any function.
    - Failed assertions (`ASSERT`) will trigger the crash screen and print a backtrace instead of hanging.
    - Backtraces provide filenames and line numbers for files with debug symbols (pass `--debug` to configure to enable for all files).
- `assets/star_rod_build` directory for Star Rod to write assets to.
- Fixed many bugs / incorrect behaviour.
- Skip compiling or linking dead code.
- Link with [libgcc_vr4300] to provide compiler intrinsics.
- Added a debug/cheats menu.
- Enemy HP is now a `s16`, increasing the cap to 32767.
- Added support for badges with negative BP costs.
- Additional features can be configured in [src/dx/config.h](src/dx/config.h).

[libgcc_vr4300]: https://github.com/Decompollaborate/libgcc_vr4300

Commit message:

add doxygen theme and begin writing manual

README.md, after:

# Paper Mario DX

[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/bates64/papermario-dx)][releases]
[![Download](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/bates64/papermario-dx/total)][download]
![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/bates64/papermario-dx/build.yaml)

This is a fork of the [Paper Mario decompilation][papermario-repo] which provides a flexible, easy-to-use base for creating romhacks.

To get started, [read the manual](manual/introduction.md).

[discord]: https://discord.gg/star-haven
[discord-badge]: https://img.shields.io/discord/279322074412089344?color=%237289DA&logo=discord&logoColor=ffffff
[papermario-repo]: https://github.com/pmret/papermario
[releases]: https://github.com/bates64/papermario-dx/releases
[download]: https://github.com/bates64/papermario-dx/releases/download/latest/papermario.bps

### List of changes (incomplete)

- US release only (no JP, PAL, or iQue - none of these are near 100% yet).
- Default configure flags: `--shift --modern-gcc --non-matching --ccache`
- Backtrace (call stack) on crash screen including file names and line numbers.
    - You can call [`debug_backtrace()`](src/dx/backtrace.h) to print a backtrace in any function.
    - Failed assertions (`ASSERT`) will trigger the crash screen and print a backtrace instead of hanging.
    - Backtraces provide filenames and line numbers for files with debug symbols (pass `--debug` to configure to enable for all files).
- `assets/star_rod_build` directory for Star Rod to write assets to.
- Fixed many bugs / incorrect behaviour.
- Skip compiling or linking dead code.
- Link with [libgcc_vr4300] to provide compiler intrinsics.
- Added a debug/cheats menu.
- Enemy HP is now a `s16`, increasing the cap to 32767.
- Added support for badges with negative BP costs.
- Additional features can be configured in [src/dx/config.h](src/dx/config.h).

[libgcc_vr4300]: https://github.com/Decompollaborate/libgcc_vr4300

<div class="section_buttons">

|                                          Next |
|----------------------------------------------:|
|[Introduction](manual/introduction.md)         |

</div>
