manual/setup.md, before:

# Setup

[TOC]

### Prerequisites

You will need:

- A Paper Mario (USA) ROM
- A computer running Windows 11, Windows 10, macOS, or Linux
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download)

<details>
    <summary>I don't have a ROM! Can I still use DX?</summary>
    <p>
        You must own a copy of Paper Mario (USA) to use DX. The European and Japanese versions of the game are not currently supported.
    </p>
    <p>
        There are a variety of tools you can use to dump a backup from your own cartridge or Virtual Console copy.
        If you do have a clean NTSC-U ROM, but it is in another format, <a href="https://hack64.net/tools/swapper.php">convert it to z64</a>.
    </p>
</details>

<details>
    <summary>I prefer my editor, like neovim. Do I have to use Visual Studio Code?</summary>
    <p>
        This guide assumes you are using Visual Studio Code.
        If you are using another editor, you will need to be smart enough to adapt the instructions to your editor.
    </p>
    <p>
        To build the game in the terminal, enter a <code>nix-shell</code> then do <code>./run</code>.
    </p>
</details>

### Windows 10 users only

If you're on Windows 10, please set up Windows Subsystem for Linux:

1. Install or upgrade to **WSL 2** following [these instructions](https://aka.ms/wsl2-install) (Ubuntu is recommended)
2. Open a WSL terminal
3. Run the following command: `sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade && cd ~`

If you're on Windows 11, you can skip this step. If you're on an earlier version of Windows, you'll need to use a virtual machine or dual-boot Linux.

This step is necessary because DX uses a variety of tools that only work on Linux/macOS that don't work on Windows natively. WSL provides a Linux environment that can run these tools without any performance penalty.

### Open a terminal

- On Windows, open the WSL terminal you installed earlier. (Do **not** use the Command Prompt or PowerShell.)
- On macOS, open Terminal.
- On Linux, open your terminal emulator of choice.

You should see some sort of prompt, for instance, `user@hostname:~$`. This is where you will type commands and press Enter to run them.

Don't be scared by the terminal - it's just a way to interact with your computer using text commands. You can copy and paste commands from this guide. Use Ctrl+Shift+V to paste into the terminal. **After completing setup, you won't need to use the terminal anymore.**

### Install Nix and Cachix

Nix is a package manager that DX uses to manage its dependencies.

Run the following command in your terminal by typing it in and pressing Enter. You can also paste it with Ctrl+Shift+V.

```sh
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf -L https://install.determinate.systems/nix | sh -s -- install --determinate
```

Run the following command to install Cachix:

```sh
nix-env -iA cachix -f https://cachix.org/api/v1/install
```

Then, tell Cachix to use the `papermario-dx` cache:

```sh
cachix use papermario-dx
```

The cache allows Nix to download tools that are needed to build DX, rather than building them from scratch. This will save you a lot of time.

### Provide your base ROM

Type `cp ` then drag your Paper Mario ROM into the terminal window to paste its path. Then, type ` papermario.us.z64`. Be careful to include spaces around the ROM path. The command should look something like this:

```sh
cp /mnt/c/Users/yourname/Documents/EXAMPLE.z64 papermario.us.z64
```

Press Enter to run the command you just typed.

Next, run this command:

```sh
nix-store --add-fixed sha256 papermario.us.z64
```

### Clone the repository

Run both the following commands in your terminal:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/bates64/papermario-dx
cd papermario-dx
```

This will copy Paper Mario DX into a directory (folder) called `~/papermario-dx`.

### Open Visual Studio Code

This command will open Visual Studio Code in the `papermario-dx` directory:

```sh
code .
```

Later, you can open DX again in Visual Studio Code by using the 'Recent' menu on the Welcome screen, or by running `code ~/papermario-dx` in the terminal.

### Run the game

Press Ctrl+Shift+B (Cmd+Shift+B on macOS) to build the game. This can take a while (more than 5 minutes) the first time you do it depending on how fast your computer is.

DX will automatically try to run the game in a known emulator after building. If you don't have an emulator already, I recommend using [ares](https://ares-emu.net) because it is very accurate. If you don't regularly test with ares and/or real hardware, your mod may not work correctly for others.

If you prefer real hardware, you can copy the output ROM `ver/us/build/papermario.z64` to a flashcart.

### Next steps

If you've made it this far, congratulations! You've successfully set up Paper Mario DX.

You're _almost_ ready to start making changes to the game. To do that, you need to [learn about the asset stack](manual/assets.md).

### Help!!!!

If you run into any issues during setup, ask for help in the `#papermario-dx` channel in the [Star Haven Discord](https://discord.gg/star-haven).

<div class="section_buttons">

| Previous | Next |
|:---------|-----:|
|[Introduction](manual/introduction.md)|[The Asset Stack](manual/assets.md)|

</div>

Commit message:

update nix onboarding to make installer less confusing

manual/setup.md, after:

# Setup

[TOC]

### Prerequisites

You will need:

- A Paper Mario (USA) ROM
- A computer running Windows 11, Windows 10, macOS, or Linux
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download)

<details>
    <summary>I don't have a ROM! Can I still use DX?</summary>
    <p>
        You must own a copy of Paper Mario (USA) to use DX. The European and Japanese versions of the game are not currently supported.
    </p>
    <p>
        There are a variety of tools you can use to dump a backup from your own cartridge or Virtual Console copy.
        If you do have a clean NTSC-U ROM, but it is in another format, <a href="https://hack64.net/tools/swapper.php">convert it to z64</a>.
    </p>
</details>

<details>
    <summary>I prefer my editor, like neovim. Do I have to use Visual Studio Code?</summary>
    <p>
        This guide assumes you are using Visual Studio Code.
        If you are using another editor, you will need to be smart enough to adapt the instructions to your editor.
    </p>
    <p>
        To build the game in the terminal, enter a <code>nix-shell</code> then do <code>./run</code>.
    </p>
</details>

### Windows 10 users only

If you're on Windows 10, please set up Windows Subsystem for Linux:

1. Install or upgrade to **WSL 2** following [these instructions](https://aka.ms/wsl2-install) (Ubuntu is recommended)
2. Open a WSL terminal
3. Run the following command: `sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade && cd ~`

If you're on Windows 11, you can skip this step. If you're on an earlier version of Windows, you'll need to use a virtual machine or dual-boot Linux.

This step is necessary because DX uses a variety of tools that only work on Linux/macOS that don't work on Windows natively. WSL provides a Linux environment that can run these tools without any performance penalty.

### Open a terminal

- On Windows, open the WSL terminal you installed earlier. (Do **not** use the Command Prompt or PowerShell.)
- On macOS, open Terminal.
- On Linux, open your terminal emulator of choice.

You should see some sort of prompt, for instance, `user@hostname:~$`. This is where you will type commands and press Enter to run them.

Don't be scared by the terminal - it's just a way to interact with your computer using text commands. You can copy and paste commands from this guide. Use Ctrl+Shift+V to paste into the terminal. **After completing setup, you won't need to use the terminal anymore.**

### Install Nix

Nix is a package manager that DX uses to manage its dependencies.

Run the following command in your terminal by typing it in and pressing Enter. You can also paste it with Ctrl+Shift+V.

```sh
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf -L https://install.determinate.systems/nix | sh -s -- install --determinate --no-confirm
```

The installer may ask for your password. The password prompt may not show any characters as you type. This is normal! Just type your password and press Enter.

Next, run this command to make Nix available in your terminal:

```sh
. /nix/var/nix/profiles/default/etc/profile.d/nix-daemon.sh
```

You can check that Nix is installed correctly by running `nix --version`.
You should see something like "nix (Nix)" followed by a version number.

### Install Cachix

Run the following command to install Cachix:

```sh
nix-env -iA cachix -f https://cachix.org/api/v1/install
```

Then, tell Cachix to use the `papermario-dx` cache:

```sh
cachix use papermario-dx
```

The cache allows Nix to download tools that are needed to build DX, rather than building them from scratch. This will save you a lot of time.

### Provide your base ROM

Type `cp ` then drag your Paper Mario ROM into the terminal window to paste its path. Then, type ` papermario.us.z64`. Be careful to include spaces around the ROM path. The command should look something like this:

```sh
cp /mnt/c/Users/yourname/Documents/EXAMPLE.z64 papermario.us.z64
```

Press Enter to run the command you just typed.

Next, run this command:

```sh
nix-store --add-fixed sha256 papermario.us.z64
```

### Clone the repository

Run both the following commands in your terminal:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/bates64/papermario-dx
cd papermario-dx
```

This will copy Paper Mario DX into a directory (folder) called `~/papermario-dx`.

### Open Visual Studio Code

This command will open Visual Studio Code in the `papermario-dx` directory:

```sh
code .
```

Later, you can open DX again in Visual Studio Code by using the 'Recent' menu on the Welcome screen, or by running `code ~/papermario-dx` in the terminal.

### Run the game

Press Ctrl+Shift+B (Cmd+Shift+B on macOS) to build the game. This can take a while (more than 5 minutes) the first time you do it depending on how fast your computer is.

DX will automatically try to run the game in a known emulator after building. If you don't have an emulator already, I recommend using [ares](https://ares-emu.net) because it is very accurate. If you don't regularly test with ares and/or real hardware, your mod may not work correctly for others.

If you prefer real hardware, you can copy the output ROM `ver/us/build/papermario.z64` to a flashcart.

### Next steps

If you've made it this far, congratulations! You've successfully set up Paper Mario DX.

You're _almost_ ready to start making changes to the game. To do that, you need to [learn about the asset stack](manual/assets.md).

### Help!!!!

If you run into any issues during setup, ask for help in the `#papermario-dx` channel in the [Star Haven Discord](https://discord.gg/star-haven).

<div class="section_buttons">

| Previous | Next |
|:---------|-----:|
|[Introduction](manual/introduction.md)|[The Asset Stack](manual/assets.md)|

</div>
